# Journal

## Name:
Rafael Piloto

## Primary Advisor: 
David Effron

## Location:
Home

## People Present:
Parents & Brother

## Topic:
Wikipedia, Google Search, and Recognition Restructure

## Paragraph 1: What did you do?
I implemented the google and wikipedia search functionality. I also realized the way I was getting user input was incredibly flawed. If I want the user to be able to communicate with the service, the service needs to be able to distiguish when its waiting for a command and when its waiting for a response. As a result, I was able to turn the listening process into a promise, which resolves the final transcript. 

## Paragraph 2: What did you learn?
Static variables must be accessed in a static manner. While trying to implement the new listening method, I had to create variables that checked whether or not the service is listening and if it should be allowed to listen. I was accessing these variables using the `this` keyword, however, because the variables are static they must be accessed using the class name rather than its own reference. 

## Paragraph 3: How did you feel about it?
I was surprised to see that JavaScript works this way. It makes sense in the end though, because if I am calling static methods then any and all refrences must also be static. The variables I am trying to access belonged to the object `Apollo`, which did not exist because everything was static. Therefore, when trying to access the variables they did not exist becaue an instance of `Apollo` has not yet been created. In order to indicate that the variables are also static, I must use the keyword `static` before the varaible itself. 

## Important links:
