# Journal

## Name:

Rafael Piloto

## Primary Advisor: 

David Effron

## Location:

Home

## People Present:

Parents & Brother

## Topic:

I feel the music!

## Paragraph 1: What did you do?

I researched, created, and tested a spotify song recommender based on the “mood” given off of as sentence using sentiment analysis. I had to pull from my own playlist of music in order to get actual songs, which is okay since my playlist has +700 songs currently. I then used the spotify api to get specific data for each song and then created an algorithm, which took the sentiment analysis results and using weights was able to create a “target song”. This target song was then compared to every other song and the closest one was the song that was selected. I also suggest 3 other songs based on 3 categories: danceability, energy, and positivity all with regard to the sentiment provided. Meaning, if the sentiment results show high positivity, the danceability will be the most danceable song regardless of positivity.

## Paragraph 2: What did you learn?

Spotify featured playlists are not always songs. When I initially built a prototype, I was pulling 12 different playlists, which included songs, asmr, and study songs featured by spotify at the time. When conducting the matching phase I noticed that asmr and study songs were getting matched often, which was not the desired result. The reason this occurred was because the audio didn’t have words, which meant that the song mood was neutral and could practically match to anything. In order to fix it, I had to use my own spotify list. After switching the playlists, I now noticed the same songs were getting recommended often. This was because I’m all of the songs at once so there’s a “most positive” song already etc. In order to introduce diversity, I added a random factor to the sample of data that the app looks at. This means that when recommending songs it may only use the first 20% of songs or the last 30%. That way the same songs aren’t always recommended and the app has the chance to consider different options instead of maxing out at the most obvious option.

## Paragraph 3: How did you feel about it?

I am very excited to incorporate it into Apollo. I think I want to have this spotify recommender be its own service with an API route that only Apollo can use. This will ease the server load and also allow me to cache the +700 songs, so that I am not constant making calls to spotify and also get quicker results. This means writing new back end code, securing, testing, deploying the spotify recommender, and then implementing the api in Apollo, which is a lot of work. If I do manage to do this however, I will be able to have the recommender available to the public rather than just limited to just Apollo. This means it would be an actual public API, which worries me because I don’t want anyone to exploit my spotify api credentials since I am not 100% confident in my authentication methods.

## Important links:

