# Journal

## Name:
Rafael Piloto

## Primary Advisor: 
David Effron

## Location:
Home

## People Present:
Parents & Brother

## Topic of Reflective Journal:
Ah-uthentication! Site Protected!

## Paragraph 1: What did you do?
I was able to implement authentication using express-session. This allows me to keep track of every user that signs in
and verify that any user trying to access my service is authenticated. Express-Session, however, is server side and provides
no unique marker on the client side. In order to fix this, I set a unique `user_sid` (User Security ID) in a cookie for every user
and store that in the express-session. Now I can check the unique identifier of every user against a "database" on my server and make sure the user is authenticated. 

## Paragraph 2: What did you learn?
We can use cookies to store and track information about a user. A cookie can be set, modified, and removed incredibly easy, which can prove to be a major security flaw. By consistently updating the server's "database" and setting expiration dates on cookies we can ensure that User Security ID's cannot be brute forced nor randomly generated to log into my service. In order to ensure that the server knows a user is authenticated, we set a local variable in each user that identifies the user as authenticated. This will allow the client to make calls to the service API in the future and verify that the client is authenticated. 

## Paragraph 3: How did you feel about it?
It was amazing to not be able to "hack" into my website. I was unable to login unless using the correct password, which is currently displayed in plain text. It will eventually be stored in a `.env` file with encryption. That way if anyone manages to view the server code, the password would be hidden and encrypted.    
